<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XVII: Night Life in Honolulu</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-17" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVII</h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title">Night Life in Honolulu</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Monday brought no new developments, and John Quincy spent a restless day. Several times he called Chan at the police station, but the detective was always out.</p>
			<p>Honolulu, according to the evening paper, was agog. This was not, as John Quincy learned to his surprise, a reference to the Winterslip case. An American fleet had just left the harbor of San Pedro bound for Hawaii. This was the annual cruise of the graduating class at Annapolis; the warships were overflowing with future captains and admirals. They would linger at the port of Honolulu for several days and a gay round of social events impended⁠—dinners, dances, moonlight swimming parties.</p>
			<p>John Quincy had not seen Barbara all day; the girl had not appeared at breakfast and had lunched with a friend down the beach. They met at dinner, however, and it seemed to him that she looked more tired and wan than ever. She spoke about the coming of the warships.</p>
			<p>“It’s always such a happy time,” she said wistfully. “The town simply blooms with handsome boys in uniform. I don’t like to have you miss all the parties, John Quincy. You’re not seeing Honolulu at its best.”</p>
			<p>“Why⁠—that’s all right,” John Quincy assured her.</p>
			<p>She shook her head. “Not with me. You know, we’re not such slaves to convention out here. If I should get you a few invitations⁠—what do you think, Cousin Minerva?”</p>
			<p>“I’m an old woman,” said Miss Minerva. “According to the standards of your generation, I suppose it would be quite the thing. But it’s not the sort of conduct I can view approvingly. Now, in my day⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Don’t you worry, Barbara,” John Quincy broke in. “Parties mean nothing to me. Speaking of old women, I’m an old man myself⁠—thirty my next birthday. Just my pipe and slippers by the fire⁠—or the electric fan⁠—that’s all I ask of life now.”</p>
			<p>She smiled and dropped the matter. After dinner, she followed John Quincy to the lanai. “I want you to do something for me,” she began.</p>
			<p>“Anything you say.”</p>
			<p>“Have a talk with <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brade, and tell me what he wants.”</p>
			<p>“Why, I thought that Jennison⁠—” said John Quincy.</p>
			<p>“No, I didn’t ask him to do it,” she replied. For a long moment she was silent. “I ought to tell you⁠—I’m not going to marry <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Jennison, after all.”</p>
			<p>A shiver of apprehension ran down John Quincy’s spine. Good lord⁠—that kiss! Had she misunderstood? And he hadn’t meant a thing by it. Just a cousinly salute⁠—at least, that was what it had started out to be. Barbara was a sweet girl, yes, but a relative, a Winterslip, and relatives shouldn’t marry, no matter how distant the connection. Then, too, there was Agatha. He was bound to Agatha by all the ties of honor. What had he got himself into, anyhow?</p>
			<p>“I’m awfully sorry to hear that,” he said. “I’m afraid I’m to blame⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Oh, no,” she protested.</p>
			<p>“But surely <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Jennison understood. He knows we’re related, and that what he saw last night meant⁠—nothing.” He was rather proud of himself. Pretty neat the way he’d got that over.</p>
			<p>“If you don’t mind,” Barbara said, “I’d rather not talk about it any more. Harry and I will not be married⁠—not at present, at any rate. And if you’ll see <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brade for me⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I certainly will,” John Quincy promised. “I’ll see him at once.” He was glad to get away, for the moon was rising on that “spot of heartbreaking charm.”</p>
			<p>A fellow ought to be more careful, he reflected as he walked along the beach. Fit upon himself the armor of preparation, as Chan had said. Strange impulses came to one here in this far tropic land; to yield to them was weak. Complications would follow, as the night the day. Here was one now, Barbara and Jennison estranged, and the cause was clear. Well, he was certainly going to watch his step hereafter.</p>
			<p>On the far end of the Reef and Palm’s first floor balcony, Brade and his wife sat together in the dusk. John Quincy went up to them.</p>
			<p>“May I speak with you, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brade?” he said.</p>
			<p>The man looked up out of a deep reverie. “Ah, yes⁠—of course⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I’m John Quincy Winterslip. We’ve met before.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, surely, surely sir.” Brade rose and shook hands. “My dear⁠—” he turned to his wife, but with one burning glance at John Quincy, the woman had fled. The boy tingled⁠—in Boston a Winterslip was never snubbed. Well, Dan Winterslip had arranged it otherwise in Hawaii.</p>
			<p>“Sit down, sir,” said Brade, somewhat embarrassed by his wife’s action. “I’ve been expecting someone of your name.”</p>
			<p>“Naturally. Will you have a cigarette, sir.” John Quincy proffered his case, and when the cigarettes were lighted, seated himself at the man’s side. “I’m here, of course, in regard to that story you told Saturday night.”</p>
			<p>“Story?” flashed Brade.</p>
			<p>John Quincy smiled. “Don’t misunderstand me. I’m not questioning the truth of it. But I do want to say this, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brade⁠—you must be aware that you will have considerable difficulty establishing your claim in a court of law. The ’eighties are a long time back.”</p>
			<p>“What you say may be true,” Brade agreed. “I’m relying more on the fact that a trial would result in some rather unpleasant publicity for the Winterslip family.”</p>
			<p>“Precisely,” nodded John Quincy. “I am here at the request of Miss Barbara Winterslip, who is Dan Winterslip’s sole heir. She’s a very fine girl, sir⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I don’t question that,” cut in Brade impatiently.</p>
			<p>“And if your demands are not unreasonable⁠—” John Quincy paused, and leaned closer. “Just what do you want, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brade?”</p>
			<p>Brade stroked those gray mustaches that drooped “in saddened mood.” “No money,” he said, “can make good the wrong Dan Winterslip did. But I’m an old man, and it would be something to feel financially secure for the rest of my life. I’m not inclined to be grasping⁠—particularly since Dan Winterslip has passed beyond my reach. There were twenty thousand pounds involved. I’ll say nothing about interest for more than forty years. A settlement of one hundred thousand dollars would be acceptable.”</p>
			<p>John Quincy considered. “I can’t speak definitely for my cousin,” he said, “but to me that sounds fair enough. I have no doubt Barbara will agree to give you that sum”⁠—he saw the man’s tired old eyes brighten in the semidarkness⁠—“the moment the murderer of Dan Winterslip is found,” he added quickly.</p>
			<p>“What’s that you say?” Brade leaped to his feet.</p>
			<p>“I say she’ll very likely pay you when this mystery is cleared up. Surely you don’t expect her to do so before that time?” John Quincy rose too.</p>
			<p>“I certainly do!” Brade cried. “Why, look here, this thing may drag on indefinitely. I want England again⁠—the Strand, Piccadilly⁠—it’s twenty-five years since I saw London. Wait! Damn it, why should I wait! What’s this murder to me⁠—by gad, sir⁠—” He came close, erect, flaming, the son of Tom Brade, the blackbirder, now. “Do you mean to insinuate that I⁠—”</p>
			<p>John Quincy faced him calmly. “I know you can’t prove where you were early last Tuesday morning,” he said evenly. “I don’t say that incriminates you, but I shall certainly advise my cousin to wait. I’d not care to see her in the position of having rewarded the man who killed her father.”</p>
			<p>“I’ll fight,” cried Brade. “I’ll take it to the courts⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Go ahead,” John Quincy said. “But it will cost you every penny you’ve saved, and you may lose in the end. Good night, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Good night!” Brade answered, standing as his father might have stood on the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Maid of Shiloh</i>’s deck.</p>
			<p>John Quincy had gone halfway down the balcony when he heard quick footsteps behind him. He turned. It was Brade, Brade the civil servant, the man who had labored thirty-six years in the oven of India, a beaten, helpless figure.</p>
			<p>“You’ve got me,” he said, laying a hand on John Quincy’s arm. “I can’t fight. I’m too tired, too old⁠—I’ve worked too hard. I’ll take whatever your cousin wants to give me⁠—when she’s ready to give it.”</p>
			<p>“That’s a wise decision, sir,” John Quincy answered. A sudden feeling of pity gripped his heart. He felt toward Brade as he had felt toward that other exile, Arlene Compton. “I hope you see London very soon,” he added, and held out his hand.</p>
			<p>Brade took it. “Thank you, my boy. You’re a gentleman, even if your name is Winterslip.”</p>
			<p>Which, John Quincy reflected as he entered the lobby of the Reef and Palm, was a compliment not without its flaw.</p>
			<p>He didn’t worry over that long, however, for Carlota Egan was behind the desk. She looked up and smiled, and it occurred to John Quincy that her eyes were happier than he had seen them since that day on the Oakland ferry.</p>
			<p>“Hello,” he said. “Got a job for a good bookkeeper?”</p>
			<p>She shook her head. “Not with business the way it is now. I was just figuring my payroll. You know, we’ve no undertow at Waikiki, but all my life I’ve had to worry about the overhead.”</p>
			<p>He laughed. “You talk like a brother Kiwanian. By the way, has anything happened? You seem considerably cheered.”</p>
			<p>“I am,” she replied. “I went to see poor dad this morning in that horrible place⁠—and when I left someone else was going in to visit him. A stranger.”</p>
			<p>“A stranger?”</p>
			<p>“Yes⁠—and the handsomest thing you ever saw⁠—tall, gray, capable-looking. He had such a friendly air, too⁠—I felt better the moment I saw him.”</p>
			<p>“Who was he?” John Quincy inquired, with sudden interest.</p>
			<p>“I’d never seen him before, but one of the men told me he was Captain Cope, of the British Admiralty.”</p>
			<p>“Why should Captain Cope want to see your father?”</p>
			<p>“I haven’t a notion. Do you know him?”</p>
			<p>“Yes⁠—I’ve met him,” John Quincy told her.</p>
			<p>“Don’t you think he’s wonderful-looking?” Her dark eyes glowed.</p>
			<p>“Oh, he’s all right,” replied John Quincy without enthusiasm. “You know, I can’t help feeling that things are looking up for you.”</p>
			<p>“I feel that too,” she said.</p>
			<p>“What do you say we celebrate?” he suggested. “Go out among ’em and get a little taste of night life. I’m a bit fed up on the police station. What do people do here in the evening? The movies?”</p>
			<p>“Just at present,” the girl told him, “everybody visits Punahou to see the night-blooming cereus. It’s the season now, you know.”</p>
			<p>“Sounds like a big evening,” John Quincy laughed. “Go and look at the flowers. Well, I’m for it. Will you come?”</p>
			<p>“Of course.” She gave a few directions to the clerk, then joined him by the door. “I can run down and get the roadster,” he offered.</p>
			<p>“Oh, no,” she smiled. “I’m sure I’ll never own a motorcar, and it might make me discontented to ride in one. The trolley’s my carriage⁠—and it’s lots of fun. One meets so many interesting people.”</p>
			<p>On the stone walls surrounding the campus of Oahu College, the strange flower that blooms only on a summer night was heaped in snowy splendor. John Quincy had been a bit lukewarm regarding the expedition when they set out, but he saw his error now. For here was beauty, breathtaking and rare. Before the walls paraded a throng of sightseers; they joined the procession. The girl was a charming companion, her spirits had revived and she chatted vivaciously. Not about Shaw and the art galleries, true enough, but bright human talk that John Quincy liked to hear.</p>
			<p>He persuaded her to go to the city for a maidenly ice-cream soda, and it was ten o’clock when they returned to the beach. They left the trolley at a stop some distance down the avenue from the Reef and Palm, and strolled slowly toward the hotel. The sidewalk was lined at their right by dense foliage, almost impenetrable. The night was calm; the street lamps shone brightly; the paved street gleamed white in the moonlight. John Quincy was talking of Boston.</p>
			<p>“I think you’d like it there. It’s old and settled, but⁠—”</p>
			<p>From the foliage beside them came the flash of a pistol, and John Quincy heard a bullet sing close to his head. Another flash, another bullet. The girl gave a startled little cry.</p>
			<p>John Quincy circled round her and plunged into the bushes. Angry branches stung his cheek. He stopped; he couldn’t leave the girl alone. He returned to her side.</p>
			<p>“What did that mean?” he asked, amazed. He stared in wonder at the peaceful scene before him.</p>
			<p>“I⁠—I don’t know.” She took his arm. “Come⁠—hurry!”</p>
			<p>“Don’t be afraid,” he said reassuringly.</p>
			<p>“Not for myself,” she answered.</p>
			<p>They went on to the hotel, greatly puzzled. But when they entered the lobby, they had something else to think about. Captain Arthur Temple Cope was standing by the desk, and he came at once to meet them.</p>
			<p>“This is Miss Egan, I believe. Ah, Winterslip, how are you?” He turned again to the girl. “I’ve taken a room here, if you don’t mind.”</p>
			<p>“Why, not at all,” she gasped.</p>
			<p>“I talked with your father this morning. I didn’t know about his trouble until I had boarded a ship for the Fanning Islands. I came back as quickly as I could.”</p>
			<p>“You came back⁠—” She stared at him.</p>
			<p>“Yes. I came back to help him.”</p>
			<p>“That’s very kind of you,” the girl said. “But I’m afraid I don’t understand⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Oh, no, you don’t understand. Naturally.” The captain smiled down at her. “You see, Jim’s my young brother. You’re my niece, and your name is Carlota Maria Cope. I fancy I’ve persuaded old Jim to own up to us at last.”</p>
			<p>The girl’s dark eyes were wide. “I⁠—I think you’re a very nice uncle,” she said at last.</p>
			<p>“Do you really?” The captain bowed. “I aim to be,” he added.</p>
			<p>John Quincy stepped forward. “Pardon me,” he said. “I’m afraid I’m intruding. Good night, Captain.”</p>
			<p>“Good night, my boy,” Cope answered.</p>
			<p>The girl went with John Quincy to the balcony. “I⁠—don’t know what to make of it,” she said.</p>
			<p>“Things are coming rather fast,” John Quincy admitted. He remembered the Corsican cigarette. “I wouldn’t trust him too far,” he admonished.</p>
			<p>“But he’s so wonderful⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Oh, he’s all right, probably. But looks are often deceptive. I’ll go along now and let you talk with him.”</p>
			<p>She laid one slim tanned hand on his white-clad arm “Do be careful!”</p>
			<p>“Oh, I’m all right,” he told her.</p>
			<p>“But someone shot at you.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, and a very poor aim he had, too. Don’t worry about me.” She was very close, her eyes glowing in the dark. “You said you weren’t afraid for yourself,” he added. “Did you mean⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I meant⁠—I was afraid⁠—for you.”</p>
			<p>The moon, of course, was shining. The coco-palms turned their heads away at the suggestion of the trades. The warm waters of Waikiki murmured nearby. John Quincy Winterslip, from Boston and immune, drew the girl to him and kissed her. Not a cousinly kiss, either⁠—but why should it have been? She wasn’t his cousin.</p>
			<p>“Thank you, my dear,” he said. He seemed to be floating dizzily in space. It came to him that he might reach out and pluck her a handful of stars.</p>
			<p>It came to him a second later that, despite his firm resolve, he had done it again. Kissed another girl. Three⁠—that made three with whom he was sort of entangled.</p>
			<p>“Good night,” he said huskily, and leaping over the rail, fled hastily through the garden.</p>
			<p>Three girls now⁠—but he hadn’t a single regret. He was living at last. As he hurried through the dark along the beach, his heart was light. Once he fancied he was being followed, but he gave it little thought. What of it?</p>
			<p>On the bureau in his room he found an envelope with his name typewritten on the outside. The note within was typewritten too. He read:</p>
			<blockquote>
				<p>“You are too busy out here. Hawaii can manage her affairs without the interference of a malihini. Boats sail almost daily. If you are still here forty-eight hours after you get this⁠—look out! Tonight’s shots were fired into the air. The aim will quickly improve!”</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Delighted, John Quincy tossed the note aside. Threatening him, eh? His activities as a detective were bearing fruit. He recalled the glowering face of Kaohla when he said: “You did this. I don’t forget.” And a remark of Dan Winterslip’s his aunt had quoted: “Civilized⁠—yes. But far underneath there are deep dark waters flowing still.”</p>
			<p>Boats were sailing almost daily, were they? Well, let them sail. He would be on one some day⁠—but not until he had brought Dan Winterslip’s murderer to justice.</p>
			<p>Life had a new glamour now. Look out? He’d be looking⁠—and enjoying it, too. He smiled happily to himself as he took off his coat. This was better than selling bonds in Boston.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
