<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>IV: A Friend of Tim’s</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-4" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Friend of Tim’s</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p>It was another of those mornings on which the fog maybe did not come. Roger and his guests were in the limousine again; it seemed to John Quincy that they had left it only a few minutes before. So it must have seemed to the chauffeur too as, sleepy-eyed, he hurried them toward the waterfront.</p>
			<p>“By the way, John Quincy,” Roger said, “you’ll want to change your money before you go aboard.”</p>
			<p>John Quincy gathered his wandering thoughts. “Oh, yes, of course,” he answered.</p>
			<p>Roger smiled. “Just what sort of money would you like to change it for?” he inquired.</p>
			<p>“Why⁠—” began John Quincy. He stopped. “Why, I always thought⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Don’t pay any attention to Roger,” Barbara laughed. “He’s spoofing you.” She was fresh and blooming, a little matter like three A. M. made no difference to her. “Only about one person out of a thousand in this country knows that Hawaii is a part of the United States, and the fact annoys us deeply over in the Islands. Dear old Roger was trying to get you in wrong with me by enrolling you among the nine hundred and ninety-nine.”</p>
			<p>“Almost did it, too,” chuckled Roger.</p>
			<p>“Nonsense,” said Barbara. “John Quincy is too intelligent. He’s not like that congressman who wrote a letter to ‘the American Consul at Honolulu.’ ”</p>
			<p>“Did one of them do that?” smiled John Quincy.</p>
			<p>“He certainly did. We almost gave up the struggle after that. Then there was the senator who came out on a junket, and began a speech with: ‘When I get home to my country⁠—’ Someone in the audience shouted: ‘You’re there now, you big stiff!’ It wasn’t elegant, of course, but it expressed our feeling perfectly. Oh, we’re touchy, John Quincy.”</p>
			<p>“Don’t blame you a bit,” he told her. “I’ll be very careful what I say.”</p>
			<p>They had reached the Embarcadero, and the car halted before one of the piers. The chauffeur descended and began to gather up the baggage. Roger and John Quincy took a share of it, and they traversed the pier-shed to the gangplank.</p>
			<p>“Get along to your office, Roger,” Barbara said.</p>
			<p>“No hurry,” he answered. “I’ll go aboard with you, of course.”</p>
			<p>Amid the confusion of the deck, a party of girls swept down on Barbara, pretty lively girls of the California brand. John Quincy learned with some regret that they were there only to see Barbara off. A big broad-shouldered man in white pushed his way through the crowd.</p>
			<p>“Hello there!” he called to Barbara.</p>
			<p>“Hello, Harry,” she answered. “You, know Roger, don’t you? John Quincy, this is an old friend of mine, Harry Jennison.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Jennison was extremely good-looking, his face was deeply tanned by the Island sun, his hair blond and wavy, his gray eyes amused and cynical. Altogether, he was the type of man women look at twice and never forget; John Quincy felt himself at once supplanted in the eyes of Barbara’s friends.</p>
			<p>Jennison seized the boy’s hand in a firm grip. “Sailing too, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Winterslip?” he inquired. “That’s good. Between us we ought to be able to keep this young woman entertained.”</p>
			<p>The shore call sounded, and the confusion increased. Along the deck came a little old lady, followed by a Chinese woman servant. They walked briskly, and the crowd gave way before them.</p>
			<p>“Hello⁠—this is luck,” cried Roger. “Madame Maynard⁠—just a moment. I want you to meet a cousin of mine from Boston.” He introduced John Quincy. “I give him into your charge. Couldn’t find a better guide, philosopher and friend for him if I combed the Islands.”</p>
			<p>The old lady glanced at John Quincy. Her black eyes snapped. “Another Winterslip, eh?” she said. “Hawaii’s all cluttered up with ’em now. Well, the more the merrier. I know your aunt.”</p>
			<p>“Stick close to her, John Quincy,” Roger admonished.</p>
			<p>She shook her head. “I’m a million years old,” she protested. “The boys don’t stick so close any more. They like ’em younger. However, I’ll keep my eye on him. My good eye. Well, Roger, run over some time.” And she moved away.</p>
			<p>“A grand soul,” said Roger, smiling after her. “You’ll like her. Old missionary family, and her word’s law over there.”</p>
			<p>“Who’s this Jennison?” asked John Quincy.</p>
			<p>“Him?” Roger glanced over to where <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Jennison stood, the center of an admiring feminine group. “Oh, he’s Dan’s lawyer. One of the leading citizens of Honolulu, I believe. John J. Adonis himself, isn’t he?” An officer appeared, herding the reluctant throng toward the gangplank. “I’ll have to leave you, John Quincy. A pleasant journey. When you come through on your way home, give me a few more days to try to convince you on my San Francisco offer.”</p>
			<p>John Quincy laughed. “You’ve been mighty kind.”</p>
			<p>“Not at all.” Roger shook his hand warmly. “Take care of yourself over there. Hawaii’s a little too much like Heaven to be altogether safe. So long, my boy, so long.”</p>
			<p>He moved away. John Quincy saw him kiss Barbara affectionately and with her friends join the slow procession ashore.</p>
			<p>The young man from Boston stepped to the rail. Several hundred voices were calling admonitions, promises, farewells. With that holiday spirit so alien to John Quincy’s experience, those ashore were throwing confetti. The streamers grew in number, making a tangle of color, a last frail bond with the land. The gangplank was taken up, clumsily the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">President Tyler</i> began to draw away from the pier. On the topmost deck a band was playing⁠—<i epub:type="se:name.music.song">Aloha-oe</i>, the sweetest, most melancholy song of goodbye ever written. John Quincy was amazed to feel a lump rising in his throat.</p>
			<p>The frail, gay-colored bond was breaking now. A thin veined hand at John Quincy’s side waved a handkerchief. He turned to find <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Maynard. There were tears on her cheeks.</p>
			<p>“Silly old woman,” she said. “Sailed away from this town a hundred and twenty-eight times. Actual count⁠—I keep a diary. Cried every time. What about? I don’t know.”</p>
			<p>The ship was well out in the harbor now. Barbara came along, Jennison trailing her. The girl’s eyes were wet.</p>
			<p>“An emotional lot, we Islanders,” said the old lady. She put her arm about the girl’s slim waist. “Here’s another one of ’em. Living way off the way we do, any goodbye at all⁠—it saddens us.” She and Barbara moved on down the deck.</p>
			<p>Jennison stopped. His eyes were quite dry. “First trip out?” he inquired.</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes,” replied John Quincy.</p>
			<p>“Hope you’ll like us,” Jennison said. “Not Massachusetts, of course, but we’ll do our best to make you feel at home. It’s a way we have with strangers.”</p>
			<p>“I’m sure I shall have a bully time,” John Quincy remarked. But he felt somewhat depressed. Three thousand miles from Beacon Street⁠—and moving on! He waved to someone he fancied might be Roger on the dock, and went to find his stateroom.</p>
			<p>He learned that he was to share his cabin with two missionaries. One was a tall, gloomy old man with a lemon-colored face⁠—an honored veteran of the foreign field named Upton. The other was a ruddy-cheeked boy whose martyrdom was still before him. John Quincy suggested drawing lots for a choice of berths, but even this mild form of gambling appeared distasteful to these emissaries of the church.</p>
			<p>“You boys take the berths,” said Upton. “Leave me the couch. I don’t sleep well anyhow.” His tone was that of one who prefers to suffer.</p>
			<p>John Quincy politely objected. After further discussion it was settled that he was to have the upper berth, the old man the lower, and the boy the couch. The Reverend <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Upton seemed disappointed. He had played the role of martyr so long he resented seeing anyone else in the part.</p>
			<p>The Pacific was behaving in a most unfriendly manner, tossing the great ship about as though it were a piece of driftwood. John Quincy decided to dispense with lunch, and spent the afternoon reading in his berth. By evening he felt better, and under the watchful and somewhat disapproving eyes of the missionaries, arrayed himself carefully for dinner.</p>
			<p>His name being Winterslip, he had been invited to sit at the captain’s table. He found Madame Maynard, serene and twinkling, at the captain’s right, Barbara at his left, and Jennison at Barbara’s side. It appeared that oddly enough there was an aristocracy of the Islands, and John Quincy, while he thought it quaint there should be such distinctions in an outpost like Hawaii, took his proper place as a matter of course.</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Maynard chatted brightly of her many trips over this route. Suddenly she turned to Barbara. “How does it happen, my dear,” she asked, “that you’re not on the college boat?”</p>
			<p>“All booked up,” Barbara explained.</p>
			<p>“Nonsense,” said the frank old lady. “<em>You</em> could have got on. But then”⁠—she looked meaningly toward Jennison⁠—“I presume this ship was not without its attraction.”</p>
			<p>The girl flushed slightly and made no reply.</p>
			<p>“What,” John Quincy inquired, “is the college boat?”</p>
			<p>“So many children from Hawaii at school on the mainland,” the old lady explained, “that every June around this time they practically fill a ship. We call it the college boat. This year it’s the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Matsonia</i>. She left San Francisco today at noon.”</p>
			<p>“I’ve got a lot of friends aboard her,” Barbara said. “I do wish we could beat her in. Captain, what are the chances?”</p>
			<p>“Well, that depends,” replied the captain cautiously.</p>
			<p>“She isn’t due until Tuesday morning,” Barbara persisted. “Wouldn’t it be a lark if you could land us the night before? As a favor to me, Captain.”</p>
			<p>“When you look at me like that,” smiled the officer, “I can only say that I’ll make a supreme effort. I’m just as eager as you to make port on Monday⁠—it would mean I could get off to the Orient that much sooner.”</p>
			<p>“Then it’s settled,” Barbara beamed.</p>
			<p>“It’s settled that we’ll try,” he said. “Of course, if I speed up there’s always the chance I may arrive off Honolulu after sundown, and be compelled to lay by until morning. That would be torture for you.”</p>
			<p>“I’ll risk it,” Barbara smiled. “Wouldn’t dear old dad be pleased if I should burst upon his vision Monday evening?”</p>
			<p>“My dear girl,” the captain said gallantly, “any man would be pleased to have you burst upon his vision any time.”</p>
			<p>There was, John Quincy reflected, much in what the captain said. Up to that moment there had been little of the romantic in his relations with girls; he was accustomed to look upon them merely as tennis or golf opponents or a fourth at bridge. Barbara would demand a different classification. There was an enticing gleam in her blue eyes, a hint of the eternal feminine in everything she did or said, and John Quincy was no wooden man. He was glad that when he left the dinner table, she accompanied him.</p>
			<p>They went on deck and stood by the rail. Night had fallen, there was no moon, and it seemed to John Quincy that the Pacific was the blackest, angriest ocean he had ever seen. He stood gazing at it gloomily.</p>
			<p>“Homesick, John Quincy?” Barbara asked. One of his hands was resting on the rail. She laid her own upon it.</p>
			<p>He nodded. “It’s a funny thing. I’ve been abroad a lot, but I never felt like this. When the ship left port this morning, I nearly wept.”</p>
			<p>“It’s not so very funny,” she said gently. “This is an alien world you’re entering now. Not Boston, John Quincy, nor any other old, civilized place. Not the kind of place where the mind rules. Out here it’s the heart that charts our course. People you’re fond of do the wildest, most unreasonable things, simply because their minds are sleeping and their hearts are beating fast. Just⁠—just remember, please, John Quincy.”</p>
			<p>There was an odd note of wistfulness in her voice. Suddenly at their side appeared the white-clad figure of Harry Jennison.</p>
			<p>“Coming for a stroll, Barbara?” he inquired.</p>
			<p>For a moment she did not reply. Then she nodded. “Yes,” she said. And called over her shoulder as she went: “Cheer up, John Quincy.”</p>
			<p>He watched her go, reluctantly. She might have stayed to assuage his loneliness. But there she walked along the dim deck, close to Jennison’s side.</p>
			<p>After a time, he sought the smoking-room. It was deserted, but on one of the tables lay a copy of the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Boston Transcript</i>. Delighted, John Quincy pounced upon it, as Robinson Crusoe might have pounced on news from home.</p>
			<p>The issue was ten days old, but no matter. He turned at once to the financial pages. There it was, like the face of a well-beloved friend, the record of one day’s trading on the Stock Exchange. And up in one corner, the advertisement of his own banking house, offering an issue of preferred stock in a Berkshire cotton mill. He read eagerly, but with an odd detached feeling. He was gone, gone from that world, away out here on a black ocean bound for picture-book islands. Islands where, not so long ago, brown tribes had battled, brown kings ruled. There seemed no link with that world back home, those gay-colored streamers of confetti breaking so readily had been a symbol. He was adrift. What sort of port would claim him in the end?</p>
			<p>He threw the paper down. The Reverend <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Upton entered the smoking-room.</p>
			<p>“I left my newspaper here,” he explained. “Ah⁠—did you care to look at it?”</p>
			<p>“Thank you, I have,” John Quincy told him.</p>
			<p>The old man picked it up in a great bony hand. “I always buy a <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Transcript</i> when I get the chance,” he said. “It carries me back. You know, I was born in Salem, over seventy years ago.”</p>
			<p>John Quincy stared at him. “You’ve been a long time out here?” he asked.</p>
			<p>“More than fifty years in the foreign field,” answered the old man. “I was one of the first to go to the South Seas. One of the first to carry the torch down there⁠—and a dim torch it was, I’m afraid. Afterward I was transferred to China.” John Quincy regarded him with a new interest. “By the way, sir,” the missionary continued, “I once met another gentleman named Winterslip. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Daniel Winterslip.”</p>
			<p>“Really?” said John Quincy. “He’s a cousin of mine. I’m to visit him in Honolulu.”</p>
			<p>“Yes? I heard he had returned to Hawaii, and prospered. I met him just once⁠—in the ‘eighties, it was, on a lonely island in the Gilbert group. It was⁠—rather a turning point in his life, and I have never forgotten.” John Quincy waited to hear more, but the old missionary moved away. “I’ll go and enjoy my <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Transcript</i>,” he smiled. “The church news is very competently handled.”</p>
			<p>John Quincy rose and went aimlessly outside. A dreary scene, the swish of turbulent waters, dim figures aimless as himself, an occasional ship’s officer hurrying by. His stateroom opened directly on the deck, and he sank into a steamer chair just outside the door.</p>
			<p>In the distance he saw his room steward, weaving his way in and out of the cabins under his care. The man was busy with his last duties for the night, refilling water carafes, laying out towels, putting things generally to rights.</p>
			<p>“Evening, sir,” he said as he entered John Quincy’s room. Presently he came and stood in the door, the cabin light at his back. He was a small man with gold-rimmed eyeglasses and a fierce gray pompadour.</p>
			<p>“Everything O. K., <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Winterslip?” he inquired.</p>
			<p>“Yes, Bowker,” smiled John Quincy. “Everything’s fine.”</p>
			<p>“That’s good,” said Bowker. He switched off the cabin light and stepped out on to the deck. “I aim to take particular care of you, sir. Saw your home town on the sailing list. I’m an old Boston man myself.”</p>
			<p>“Is that so?” said John Quincy cordially. Evidently the Pacific was a Boston suburb.</p>
			<p>“Not born there, I don’t mean,” the man went on. “But a newspaper man there for ten years. It was just after I left the University.”</p>
			<p>John Quincy stared through the dark. “Harvard?” he asked.</p>
			<p>“Dublin,” said the steward. “Yes, sir⁠—” He laughed an embarrassed little laugh. “You might not think it now, but the University of Dublin, Class of 1901. And after that, for ten years, working in Boston on the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Gazette</i>⁠—reporting, copy desk, managing editor for a time. Maybe I bumped into you there⁠—at the Adams House bar, say, on a night before a football game.”</p>
			<p>“Quite possible,” admitted John Quincy. “One bumped into so many people on such occasions.”</p>
			<p>“Don’t I know it?” <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Bowker leaned on the rail, in reminiscent mood. “Great times, sir. Those were the good old days when a newspaper man who wasn’t tanked up was a reproach to a grand profession. The <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Gazette</i> was edited mostly from a place called the Arch Inn. We’d bring our copy to the city editor there⁠—he had a regular table⁠—a bit sloppy on top, but his desk. If we had a good story, maybe he’d stand us a cocktail.”</p>
			<p>John Quincy laughed.</p>
			<p>“Happy days,” continued the Dublin graduate, with a sigh. “I knew every bartender in Boston well enough to borrow money. Were you ever in that place in the alley back of the Tremont Theater⁠—?”</p>
			<p>“Tim’s place,” suggested John Quincy, recalling an incident of college days.</p>
			<p>“Yeah, bo. Now you’re talking. I wonder what became of Tim. Say, and there was that place on Boylston⁠—but they’re all gone now, of course. An old pal I met in ‘Frisco was telling me it would break your heart to see the cobwebs on the mirrors back in Beantown. Gone to the devil, just like my profession. The newspapers go on consolidating, doubling up, combining the best features of both, and an army of good men go on the town. Good men and true, moaning about the vanished days and maybe landing in jobs like this one of mine.” He was silent for a moment. “Well, sir, anything I can do for you⁠—as a mutual friend of Tim’s⁠—”</p>
			<p>“As a friend of Tim’s,” smiled John Quincy, “I’ll not hesitate to mention it.”</p>
			<p>Sadly Bowker went on down the deck. John Quincy sat lonely again. A couple passed, walking close, talking in low tones. He recognized Jennison and his cousin. “Between us we ought to be able to keep this young woman entertained,” Jennison had said. Well, John Quincy reflected, his portion of the entertainment promised to be small.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
